# Container Lifetime & Persistent Data

We've only been worrying about what's needed to run a container, not the unique data that might be created once a container is running.

*   Containers are meant to be **immutable** and **ephemeral**. <br>
    The idea here is that we can always throw away a container and create a new one from an image. 
*   This is the idea of **immutable infrastructure** - we don't change things
    once they're running. If a config change needs to happen, or maybe the container version upgrade needs to happen, then we *redeploy a whole new container*. This gives us huge benefits in reliability and consistency, and making changes reproducible.

But what about the data our application produces - the databases, or a key-value stores, or anything that the app spits out into a file?

*   Ideally, the containers shouldn't contain our unique data mixed in with the
    application binaries. This is known as **spearation of concerns**.

Docker gives us features to update our application by recreating a new container, and ideally, our unique data is still where it needs to be and was preserved for us while our container was recycled. <br>

This problem of unique data is known as **persistent data**.

Docker provides two solutions:
1.  Data Volumes <br>
    Docker volumes are a configuration option for a container that creates a special location outside of that container's union file system to store unique data. This preserves it across container removals and allows us to attach it to whatever container we want. The container just sees it like a local file path.
2.  Bind Mounts <br>
    Bind mounts are simply us sharing or mounting a host directory, or file, into a container. This too looks just like a local file path/directory path to the container. It won't actually know that it's coming from the host.

## 1. Data Volumes

